# React router's data loading feature "Loaders" :

- so the idea behind a loader is that somewhere in our code we create a function that fetches data from api, we then provide that loader function to one of our routes, and that route will then fetch that data as soon as application goes to that route. And then in the end, once the data has arrived, it will be provided to the page component itself using a custom hook. 
- now to use this data loading feature, first create a loader function, and it is a convention that we create it in the same component page where we want the data to be loaded. Then import that loader in app component, and also try to change its name as we will have more than 1 loaders. then in the route, use loader. now use a hook useLoaderData to get that data and then use that data. 
- And effectively what we just did here was to implement or to use a "render as you fetch" strategy because the nice thing about this is that React Router will actually start fetching the data at the same time as it starts rendering the correct route. So these things really happen at the same time, while what we did before using useEffect was always a "fetch on render" approach. So basically, we rendered the component first, and then after the component was already rendered is when we then would start to fetch the data. And so that would then create so-called data loading waterfalls, but not here. So here everything really happens at the same time, which is a really nice and really modern thing to do as well.